---
title: Project 2
content_type: Assignment
---

This second project will focus on crafting visual narratives through interaction and animation.

__Project Due Thursday 4/21 at **1pm** and presentations will be on 4/21.__

## Requirements

### Part 1: EDA

For part 1, you will find an interesting dataset that has an interesting story to tell.

1. Find a dataset that you have a question you think it answers. Here is a list of my favorite data sources if you need a place to browse: [https://github.com/Jay-Oh-eN/awesome-resources/blob/master/datasets.md](https://github.com/Jay-Oh-eN/awesome-resources/blob/master/datasets.md). **Provide a link to the original source dataset in your submission.**

2. Perform EDA on the dataset (can be in any language) with the intention of finding a "thesis" that you want to communicate with your final visualization. **Submit at least 3 charts you used for EDA as static images.**

### Part 2: Thesis/Narrative

For this second part you will write out your narrative using words (before you start to visualize it). Include which type of narrative (author vs. reader vs. martini glass) you will be telling. **Submit a ~300 word document that begins with a one sentence description of your thesis. The rest of the abstract should describe the importance of communicating this thesis (think of this as an abstract you could submit for a conference talk).**

### Part 3: Visualization

For part 3 you will create a explanatory visualization to communicate your thesis effectively.

**Your visualization should utilize:**

1. At least one interactive element.
2. At least one animated element.

_You will be graded on the content of what you are visualizing and how your encodings effectively communicate your thesis._

## Submission

Again, you will be submitting this project as a Gist on Canvas.

## Peer Critique

For this project you will also perform a peer critique after the initial submission deadline. More on the format of the critique on Tuesday after initial projects have been submitted.

After the critique you will publicly post you visualization to blocks and your Github pages portfolio site.

### How to Critique

For this first peer critique please read these two articles to understand how to be as effective (and constructive) in your feedback.
  * [Design and Redesign in Visualization](https://medium.com/@hint_fm/design-and-redesign-4ab77206cf9)
  * [Some words about constructive criticism](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2014/08/some-words-about-constructive-criticism.html)

<!-- 
## Resources
 -->
