---
title: Final
content_type: Assignment
---

The final will be a culmination of everything you learned in this class! Since there were many topics, visualization types, and concepts covered the final will be intentionally open ended to allow you to focus deeper on the subjects you would like to hone.

__Project Due Thursday 5/12 at **1pm** (where you will present to the class__

## Requirements

For this project you are free to create any type of visualization as long as it meets the following requirements:
    1. Uses (at least) 3 charts/graphics that visualize a single dataset (or multiple datasets relating to the same entities)
    2. __One (and only one)__ of the graphics can be from a previous project.
    3. Links the data/interaction between the 3 graphics. There are a varieties of ways to implement this but here are some examples:
        * Details on demand/zoom interaction
        * Linked brushing
        * Linked hover
        * Filtering/Sorting/Selection

## What to Submit?

You should submit the following:

* 3+ EDA plots
* ~100 word **Thesis** Document on what each of your 3 graphics communicates.
* ~300 word **Process** Document
    * What data?
    * Did you transform/manipulate/aggregate/model/etc. the data?
    * Describe your EDA process?
    * Describe and defend your visual encodings chosen
    * Describe and defend the interactive elements of your graphic
* Source code for all EDA performed
* Source code for final Visualization

Again, you will be submitting this project as a Gist on Canvas.
